---
layout: lesson
title: Docker Volumes and Persistent Data
author: Kevin McAleer
type: page
cover: /learn/docker/assets/docker.jpg
date: 2024-01-21
previous: 06_networking.html
next: 08_docker-compose.html
description: Learn how to use Docker volumes for managing persistent data.
percent: 72
duration: 3
navigation:
- name: Docker
- content:
  - section: Overview
    content:
    - name: Overview
      link: 00_intro.html
    - name: Introduction to Docker
      link: 01_what-is-docker.html
    - name: Installing Docker
      link: 02_installing-docker.html
  - section: Images and Containers
    content:
    - name: Docker Basics
      link: 03_basics.html
    - name: Building Your First Docker Image
      link: 04_building.html
    - name: Managing Docker Containers
      link: 05_managing.html
    - name: Docker Networking Basics
      link: 06_networking.html
    - name: Docker Volumes and Persistent Data
      link: 07_volumes.html
  - section: Docker Compose
    content:
    - name: Creating a Docker-Compose File
      link: 08_docker-compose.html
    - name: 'Project: Containerize a Simple Application'
      link: 09_dockerise.html
    - name: Conclusion and Next Steps
      link: 10_conclusion.html
---


## Handling Data Persistence in Docker

Data persistence is a crucial aspect of managing stateful applications in Docker. This lesson is dedicated to understanding and using Docker volumes, an essential tool for persistent data management.

---

### Understanding Volumes

Docker volumes are the preferred mechanism for persisting data generated by and used by Docker containers.

1. **What are Docker Volumes?**
   - Docker volumes are storage units independent of the container lifecycle. They are managed by Docker and stored in a part of the host filesystem which is managed by Docker (`/var/lib/docker/volumes/` on Linux).

2. **Differences Between Volumes, Bind Mounts, and Tmpfs Mounts**:
   - **Volumes**: Stored in a part of the host file system managed by Docker. Non-Docker processes should not modify this part of the file system.
   - **Bind Mounts**: Can be stored anywhere on the host system. They may be modified at any time by Docker or non-Docker processes.
   - **Tmpfs Mounts**: Stored in the host system’s memory only, and are never written to the host system’s filesystem.

3. **Advantages of Using Volumes**:
   - Volumes are easier to back up or migrate than bind mounts.
   - They can be more safely shared among multiple containers.
   - Volume drivers allow you to store volumes on remote hosts or cloud providers.

---

### Using Volumes

Effective use of Docker volumes is key to managing data in containers.

1. **Creating and Managing Docker Volumes**:
   - Use `docker volume create [volume-name]` to create a new volume.
   - Manage volumes using commands like `docker volume ls`, `docker volume inspect [volume-name]`, and `docker volume rm [volume-name]`.

2. **Mounting Volumes into a Container**:
   - When running a container, use the `-v` or `--mount` flag to mount a volume.
   - Example: `docker run -d -v myvol2:/app nginx:latest`

3. **Best Practices for Data Storage and Persistence**:
   - Use volumes for any persistent data or configurations.
   - Avoid storing data in containers as much as possible.

---

### Data Storage Considerations

Managing and securing data is critical in Docker environments.

1. **Data Backup and Recovery Strategies with Docker Volumes**:
   - Regularly back up your volumes.
   - Use Docker volume drivers that support backup services for easier data management.

2. **Managing Volume Data Outside of Docker**:
   - Data in volumes can be accessed and managed from the Docker host for maintenance or backup.

3. **Data Security Considerations with Volumes**:
   - Ensure data security by managing access controls to volumes.
   - Use encrypted volumes where sensitive data is stored.

---

By understanding Docker volumes and their application in data persistence, you can effectively manage stateful applications in Docker. This includes not only storing data but also ensuring its availability, security, and integrity over time.

---
