---
layout: blog
title: PicoCat v2
date: 2022-03-25
author: Kevin McAleer
excerpt: All about PicoCat and the new upgrades and improvements
cover: /assets/img/picocat01.jpg
tags:
 - picocat
 
---

## Table of Contents

{:toc}
* toc

---

## PicoCat Origins

**PicoCat** is a remix of ***Opencat***, created by Dr. Rongzhong Li in his dorm room back in 2016. Rongzhong went on to create Bittle, Nybble and the company [Petio](https://www.petio.com).

PicoCat is different because its powered by the Raspberry Pi RP2040 chip, either in the Pico form or new [Pimoroni](https://www.pimoroni.com) Servo 2040 board.


## What is PicoCat?
PicoCat is a 3d printable, opensource Cat robot, programmed using MicroPython. 

## Upgrades

### - Body
The first upgrade is the new **body**, which is designed to accomodate the Servo 2040 board, which is a tiny bit wider than the original body.

### - Servo 2040
The next upgrade is the Pimoroni Servo 2040 - a Raspberry Pi RP 2040 powered servo board, that can connect up to 18 servos, and a bunch of sensors to. Its the perfect size for PicoCat, and combines the MicroController with the Servo interface.

Previously I'd used a regular Raspberry Pi Pico, along with an PCA9685. The problem was that these PCA9685 boards can be a bit finicky, and it can require even more hardware to split the power between the Pico and the PCA9685.

### - MicroPython code
Next, I've revisited the MicroPython code, and simplified it somewhat. The RP2040 makes using the servos a lot easier, the servo movements to the correct angles are now much more acurate.

---

## 3D Design & files
I created a couple of videos on how to design the PicoCat:

**PicoCat & Fusion 360**
{% include youtubeplayer.html id="1mj3Ja2Zj0Q" %} 

**PicoCat & Fusion 360 #2**
{% include youtubeplayer.html id="i-0aZntqxUo" %} 

**PicoCat UnitTesting with MicroPython**
{% include youtubeplayer.html id="TO5B9doMss0" %} 
