---
title: Cutebot & Cutebot Pro
layout: project
short_title: Cutebot & Cutebot Pro
short_description: 
description: Two ready to roll robots from Elecfreaks
date: 2023-10-07
author: Kevin McAleer
excerpt: Cutebot and Cutebot Pro are two (too cute?) Microbit robots from Elecfreaks
cover: /assets/img/blog/cutebot/cutebot.jpg
tags:
 - cutebot
 - elecfreaks
 - microbit
 - micropython
groups:
 - robots
 - microbit
videos:
 - yyctf0D_k-M
 - O7gw22CKxs4
---

## Cutebot

[Cutebot](https://www.elecfreaks.com/elecfreaks-pico-ed-smart-cutebot-kit-with-pico-ed-board.html) is a small programmable robot, based on the Pico:Ed or Micro:bit microcontroller. It can be programmed in MicroPython, [Microblocks](http://www.microblocks.fun/) and C++.

---

### Cutebot Features

Cutebot has the following features:

* Dual line following sensors
* 2 motors
* 2 RGB LED user programmable 'headlights'
* IR sensor
* Ultrasonic rangefinder for avoiding obstacles or following them!
* Ambient Chassis lights
* Headers for expansion and access to the I2C bus and GPIOs
* Battery box for 3 AAA batteries

---

### Whats in the box

The Cutebot kit contains everything you need to get started (apart from 3 AAA batteries). The box contains:

* The Cutebot robot
* A MicroUSB cable for programming the robot
* An AAA battery box and sticky pad for attaching it to the robot
* An ultrasonic range finder for measuring distance and detecting objects in front of the robot
* A Pico:ed microcontroller board for controlling the robot
* User Instructions
* A line following sheet; the robot can follow the black line drawn on the sheet

#### User instructions

The guide that comes with the kit has a couple of easy examples (they call then cases, as in use-cases) to get you started:

* Case 01: Move Forward or Reverse at the Full Speed
* Case 02: Speed Up Gradually
* Case 03: Dance in Figure-of-eight
* Case 04: Run at Random
* Case 05: Automatic Headlights
* Case 06: Steering&Clearance Lamps
* Case 07: Fall-arrest Cutebot
* Case 08: Run Along the Black Line
* Case 09: Autonomous Obstacle Avoidance
* Case 10: Car Following with A Fixed Distance
* Case 11: micro:bit Remote Control
* Case 12: Remote Control the Cutebot with micro:bit Accelerometer
* Case 13: Remote Control with Joystick:bit
* Case 14: IR Remote Control Car
* Case 15: Seeking the Light

You can access the examples here: <https://www.elecfreaks.com/learn-en/microbitKit/smart_cutebot/index.html>

---

### MicroPython

[Micro:bit Makemode](https://makecode.microbit.org) provides an web-based environment for coding in MicroPython.

---

### C++

For the more experienced and hardcore programmer, the Pico:ed can be programmed in C++. The main benefit of this is the speed of execution of code, and the smaller code size on board. The main disadvantage is that C++ can be quite complicated and intimidating for beginners, and requires experience and knowledge to do the most basic of things.

---

### Price

The price for the Cutebot:

* ***with*** the pico:ed - $47.90
* ***without*** the pico:ed - $34.90

### Pico:ed

The Pico:ed is a microcontroller, similiar in form factor to the BBC Micro:Bit. Unlike the Micro:Bit, the Pico:Ed has a Raspberry Pi RP2040 as the main processor, bringing all the rich features and software support for that chip.

The pico:ed is priced around $12.90.

---

## Pros

* Small, solid construction
* Very easy to setup and start programming
* Lots of features for the price
* Price
* Compatibility - Accessories & Plugins available
* Expandability - easy to add lego to it

## Cons

* I had a few problem getting the software to work initially (CircuitPython libraries)

---

## Cutebot Pro

Elecgreaks have recently (2023) released the Cutebot Pro, a more higher specification version of the original [cutebot](#cutebot) reviewed earlier in the year.

### Cutebot Pro Features

* 18650 Battery holder
* 2 pairs of line sensors
* Larger base
* Motors with encoders for accurate positioning

---

The 18650 battery is a great addition to the Cutebot Pro, it can also be charged from within the robot too.

