---
layout: blog
title: RetroPie on CM4 Atari 2600
description: "RetroPie on Compute Module 4 IO Devboard"
short_title: RetroPie CM4 Atari 2600
short_description: "RetroPie on Compute Module 4 IO Devboard"
date: 2023-08-11
author: Kevin McAleer
excerpt: >-
    Raspberry Pi Compute Module 4 IO board in a 3D printed Atari 2600 case
cover: /assets/img/blog/retropie/retropie_cm4.jpg
tags: 
 - Raspberry Pi
 - RetroPie
 - Retro Gaming
 - Gaming
---

## Atari 2600 case

Late last year I created a [3D Printed](/blog/atari-2600) Atari 2600 case for the Raspberry Pi Compute Module 4 IO board.

The CM4 Pi worked fine for a while, and then all of a sudden it stopped booting correctly. I went for the CM4 with Wifi, 2Gb RAM and 32Gb of eMMC storage.

I suspected that the file system had become corrupted, or worse the eMMC had become corrupted some how. So for the past 8 months I've not touched it.

---

## Fixing the CM4

This weekend I decided to troubleshoot the CM4 and see if I can return it to service. Documentation for the CM4 is a bit sparse as they are quite specialised and designed for embedded use.

What I needed to do was to wipe the existing installation of Raspberry Pi and to load up a fresh copy of Raspberry Pi OS. Unlike a regular Raspberry Pi, you don't use the SD Card to load the OS, instead you need to run some special software and connect to the IO Devboard using a Micro-B USB cable and put a jumper onto the motherboard to set it into target disk mode.

Jeff Geerling has [written a nice article](https://www.jeffgeerling.com/blog/2020/flashing-raspberry-pi-compute-module-on-macos-usbboot) about how to do this, including all the steps required.

---

## Retro Gaming

Once I had Raspberry Pi OS 64-bit installed on the CM4 I was able to boot it normally and begin the process of setting up RetroPie on it, as this was the original idea for the CM4 board and 3D printed case, designed to look like an Atari 2600.

I've produced [details steps](/blog/setting-up-samba-for-retropie) on how to setup Samba file sharing on the Raspberry Pi for use with RetroPie.

---

## Video

{% include youtubeplayer.html id="mtfUUuBg1dw" %}

---
