---
title: Omnibot 3000
description: A Pimoroni Yukon powered Omnibot 2000
layout: project
date: 2023-11-27
cover: /assets/img/blog/omnibot3000/omnibot3000.png
excerpt:
author: Kevin McAleer
difficulty: Advanced
groups:
    - weird
    - micropython
    - retro
tags:
    - pico
    - robots
    - micropython
    - retro
---

This is a work-in-progress project, so somethings may change!

I recently bought an original 1984 Tomy Omnibot 2000 from Ebay. I've always wanted one of these since I was a kid, and I finally got one. I've been working on a project to replace the original electronics with a Raspberry Pi Pico W, and to add some extra features.

## Omnibot 2000

In the realm of vintage robotics, few names evoke as much nostalgia as the Tomy Omnibot 2000. Launched in the mid-1980s, this robotic companion represented a significant leap in consumer robotics, blending entertainment with a glimpse into the future.

---

### A Glimpse into the Past: The Launch of Omnibot 2000

The Tomy Omnibot 2000, introduced by the Japanese toy manufacturer Tomy, was part of a series of personal robots designed for home use. It was a dream come true for many during the 1980s, an era fascinated with the idea of robots becoming part of daily life. The Omnibot 2000, with its futuristic design and capabilities, captured the imagination of both children and adults alike.

---

### Design and Features: Ahead of Its Time

The design of the Omnibot 2000 was akin to what the 1980s considered futuristic. With its boxy, yet sleek white plastic body, it featured movable arms, a gripping hand, and a tray for carrying items. The most striking feature was its head, which housed the cassette player that controlled its functions.

This robot was operated using a remote control, allowing users to maneuver it around the house. It could perform tasks like delivering snacks, playing music from its built-in cassette player, and even speaking pre-recorded messages. For its time, these features were groundbreaking, offering a glimpse into the potential of robotics in everyday life.

---

### The Impact and Legacy

The Omnibot 2000 wasn't just a toy; it was a symbol of the era's technological aspirations. It represented a future where robots could assist with daily tasks, a theme popular in science fiction of the time. While its abilities seem modest by today's standards, the Omnibot 2000 played a crucial role in introducing robotics to a wider audience.

For collectors and enthusiasts, the Omnibot 2000 remains a cherished item. It's not just about owning a piece of technology; it's about possessing a slice of history that symbolized the optimism and imagination of the 1980s.

---

### Modern Perspective: Reflecting on the Tomy Omnibot 2000

Today, the Omnibot 2000 serves as a reminder of how far robotics has come and the long-standing human fascination with robotic companions. In an age where robots are becoming increasingly sophisticated and integrated into our lives, the Omnibot 2000 stands as a testament to the early dreams and ambitions in the field of robotics.

---

## Pimoroni Yukon powered Omnibot

The original electronics on the omnibot are old and no longer working, so I decided to replace them with a Pimoroni Yukon which will enable me to run MicroPython programs on the Omnibot, including a small web server to control the robot, play simple Audio and control some additional RGB LED strips.

---

## Omnibot 3000

Read the next installment of this project here: [Omnibot 3000](/blog/omnibot3000/).
