---
title: "Obsidian - the best tool for Makers"
description: >-
    Obsidian is a powerful note-taking tool that is perfect for makers and hobbyists.
excerpt: >-
    "Unlike other writing tools, Obsidian uses [Markdown](/resources/glossary/#markdown) files to store your notes. This means that your notes are stored in plain text files that can be easily read and edited by other applications."
layout: showcase
date: 2024-12-01
author: Kevin McAleer
difficulty: beginner
cover: /assets/img/blog/obsidian/cover.jpg
hero:  /assets/img/blog/obsidian/hero.png
mode: light
tags:
 - Obsidian
# groups:
# - 
videos:
 - zo3mb3EeJXQ
---

## What is Obsidian?

`Obsidian` is an open-source writing tool that is free to use for Personal use.

Unlike other writing tools, Obsidian uses [Markdown](/learn/markdown/02_markdown_basics.html) files to store your notes. This means that your notes are stored in plain text files that can be easily read and edited by other applications.

Obsidian is *highly* customizable and can be used to organize your **projects**, **ideas**, and **research**. It is perfect for ***makers*** and ***hobbyists*** who want to keep track of their projects and ideas.

In this article, we will explore some of the features of Obsidian and how it can help you stay organized and productive.

---

## Obsidian - the Makers best friend

`Obsidian` <https://obsidian.md> is a **powerful**, open-source, note-taking tool that is perfect for makers and hobbyists. It is highly customizable and can be used to organize your projects, ideas, and research.

> **Note:** Obsidian is *completely free* for personal use. Commericial licenses are $50 per user, per year.

Obsidian uses a system of linked notes to help you connect your ideas and thoughts. You can create links between notes to show how they are related, and you can use tags to categorize your notes. This makes it easy to find and organize your notes, without even providing a folder structure.

Obsidian also has a powerful search feature that allows you to quickly find notes based on their content or tags. You can also create custom templates to help you create new notes quickly and easily.

---

## Features

1. **Markdown Support**

    Obsidian uses [Markdown](/learn/markdown/02_markdown_basics.html) files to store your notes. This means that your notes are stored in plain text files that can be easily read and edited by other applications. Markdown is a lightweight markup language that is easy to learn and use.

1. **Linking Notes**

    Obsidian uses a system of ***linked notes*** to help you connect your ideas and thoughts. You can create links between notes to show how they are related, and you can use tags to categorize your notes.

1. **Custom Templates**

    Obsidian allows you to create custom templates to help you create new notes quickly and easily. You can create templates for different types of notes, such as project plans, meeting notes, or research notes.

1. **Search**

    Obsidian has a powerful search feature that allows you to quickly find notes based on their content or tags. You can search for notes by keyword, tag, or date, and you can use filters to narrow down your search results.

1. **Plugins**

    Obsidian has a growing library of plugins that allow you to extend its functionality. You can use plugins to add new features to Obsidian, such as task management, calendar integration, or mind mapping.

---

## Why Obsidian is a Makers best friend

Obsidian allows the capture of thoughts, ideas and concepts without getting in the way of that creative process. You can use features such as the **Canvas** plugin to create mind maps, or the **Dataview** plugin to create tables and charts.

You can link notes together using the `[[note title]]` syntax, and Obsidian will automatically create a link to that note. This makes it easy to navigate between related notes and keep track of your ideas.

You can also use tags to categorize your notes and create custom templates to help you create new notes quickly and easily.

Tags are really powerful and can be used to collect together notes on a particular topic, or to group notes by project or category. You can use tags to filter your notes and create custom views of your notes.

The power of Obsidian is how it builds a network of notes that are interconnected and related. This allows you to see the connections between your ideas and thoughts, and to explore new ideas and concepts. This gets more powerful, the more notes you have, and the more you use it.

Some plugins that are a must have for makers are:

- **Kanban** - to manage your projects, tasks and ideas. [Kanban link](https://github.com/mgmeyers/obsidian-kanban)
- **Dataview** - to create tables, charts, and lists from existing notes and data. [Dataview link](https://github.com/blacksmithgu/obsidian-dataview)

---

## Conclusion

Obsidian is a powerful note-taking tool that is perfect for makers and hobbyists. It is highly customizable and can be used to organize your projects, ideas, and research.

---
