---
title: "New Year, new robot - meet Cubie-3"
layout: showcase
cover: /projects/cubie-3/assets/img/cover.jpg
hero: /projects/cubie-3/assets/img/hero.png
mode: light
short_title: New Year, new robot - meet Cubie-3
short_description: Meet Cubie-3, a Raspberry Pi Pico W powered autonomous robot with computer vision.
description: An introduction to Cubie-3, a Raspberry Pi Pico W powered autonomous robot with computer vision.
date: 2026-01-11
author: Kevin McAleer
excerpt: >
    A step-by-step guide to installing Raspberry Pi OS.

tags:
 - raspberry_pi
 - cubie_3
 - robot
 - python
videos:
 - K-bFD4RvypU

groups:
 - raspberrypi
---

I'm excited to introduce **Cubie-3**, my first project for 2026! Cubie-3 is an open-source, 3D printable cube robot powered by a Raspberry Pi 5 and equipped with computer vision, speech and voice capabilities. This little robot is designed to be a versatile platform for learning about robotics, programming, and computer vision.

{% include gallery.html titles="Cubie-3,Parts" links="/projects/cubie-3/,/projects/cubie-3/assembly" images="/projects/cubie-3/assets/img/cubie01.jpg, /projects/cubie-3/assets/img/knolling.jpg" cols="2" use-links=true %}

---

## Key Features
- **Raspberry Pi 5 Powered**: Cubie-3 is built around the powerful Raspberry Pi 5, providing ample processing power for various applications.
- **Sunfounder Fusion HAT+**: This HAT provides motor control, battery power, a microphone for sound input and speech recognition, and a speaker for sound output and speech synthesis
- **Raspberry Pi Camera Module v3**: The front-facing camera enables computer vision projects, allowing Cubie-3 to see and interact with its environment.
- **Omnidirectional Movement**: Equipped with four mecanum wheels, Cubie-3 can move in any direction, making it highly maneuverable.
- **Modular Design**: The 3D printable design allows for easy customization and expansion, making it perfect for various projects.

## Get Started with Cubie-3
If you're interested in building your own Cubie-3 robot, I've created a comprehensive guide that walks you through the entire process, from assembling the hardware to programming the software. You can find the full guide [here](/projects/cubie-3/index.html).

{% include gallery.html title="Cubie-3 Project" link="/projects/cubie-3/" images="/projects/cubie-3/assets/img/cover.jpg" noborders=true titles="Cubie-3 Build Instructions" type="learn" descriptions="Learn how to build your own" use-links=true%}