---
title: Maker Faire Rome 2023 - Day 1
description: Travel and setup day
layout: blog
cover: /assets/img/blog/mfr2023/mfr2023.png
short_title: Maker Faire Rome 2023 - Day 1
short_description: Travel and setup day
date: 2023-10-19
author: Kevin McAleer
excerpt: Maker Faire Rome 2023 Travel Diary
tags:
 - maker
 - robots
 - micropython
 - mfr2023
groups:
 - events
---

## Airport Security - stopped due to a suspicious package

I was anticipating some issues at airport security due to the amount of batteries I was carrying with me; they have a guidance of 2 batteries per person for carry on luggage, and due to them being LiPo battiries I couldn't put these in my checked luggage. No problems with batteries, however my bag was checked because I had a suspcious package in my bag - a bar of soap! 

---

## What I took with me

I like to travel as light as possible normally, however because I have a stand at Maker Faire Rome, I had to take a lot of stuff with me. I had a large suitcase, a pull-up banner, and a backpack. Plus an unholy amount of wires and batteries.

It also doesnt help that Bubo is bomb shaped like a cartoon Acme bomb from Road-Runner.

Other things I've taken for the stand include:

- Colouring in sheets for kids (or adults) to colour in
- Crayons
- Stickers - all those stickers i designed and cut on my new Cricut Maker 3
- [Robots!](/blog/maker-faire-rome-2023.html#exhibits)
- Batteries for the robots
- International travel adapters (UK to EU convertors)
- A4 Information sheets about the robots
- Small informationi sheets, one per robot
- Kraft board card that I can use to make some origami information sign stands
- Stationary - pens, pencils, scissors, glue, tape, etc
- 2x 4 way Power sockets
- Tools; for improput repairs
- Laminated worksheets for the interactive exhibits
- a Raspberry Pi 4 8gb in a case, keyboard, mouse, and small monitor
- Youtubing stuff - wireless lavelier Microphones
- SD Card reader (My M1 MacBook doesnt have one built-in), for impromptu Raspberry Pi OS Imaging
- Currency!

---

I'm currently writing this at the airport as I wait for the gate to be called. I'm always too early when travelling as I tend to stack contingency on top of contingency; classic overthinking, however this does mean I have little travel problems.

I'll update this once I've setup the stand and have some pictures to share.

---
