---
title: "Hosting websites on multiple Raspberry Pi"
description: >-

excerpt: >-
layout: showcase
date: 2024-09-18
author: Kevin McAleer
difficulty: beginner
cover: /assets/img/blog/kevsrobots/cover.jpg
hero:  /assets/img/blog/kevsrobots/hero.png
mode: light
tags: 
 - website
 - raspberry_pi
 - docker
groups:
 - raspberrypi
 - docker
# videos:
#  -
---

## Hosting websites on multiple Raspberry Pi

You can host websites from your home with a Raspberry Pi. In this article I'll show you how [KevsRobots.com](https://www.kevsrobots.com) is hosted on 4 Raspberry Pi 5s and what each component of the software stack does.

---

### Background of KevsRobots.com

Back in 2019 I started a website called [SMARSFan](https://www.smarsfan.com) to document resources relating to the SMARS robot, a 3D printable robot based on the Arduino Uno R3. The website was hosted using github pages and was a static site.

GitHub uses Jekyll to build the website from simple [MarkDown](/learn/markdown) files. I learned how to style pages, and how to use Liquid to create templates. Liquid is a templating language that is used in Jekyll to create reusable components such as headers and footers, navigation and sidebars.

Jekyll also works really well with Yaml, (Yet Another Markup Language) which is a human-readable data language. Yaml is used to store configuration data, and is used in Jekyll to store metadata about the pages and posts. See the Data section below for more info on how thats used in kevsrobots.com.

After becoming familiar with how to build sites using Jeykll, I thought it would be fun to learn how to host the site itself using a Raspberry Pi. I had a few Raspberry Pi 4s lying around, and I thought it would be a fun project to host the site on a Pi. The result was [Clustered-Pi](https://www.clustered-pi.com), a website that documents how to host websites on a cluster of Raspberry Pi 4s. I like puns so Clustered-Pi was a great name for a site about how to cluster Raspberry Pi's.

After learning how to build a website that can run on several Raspberry Pi's (more on this below) I decided to create a site dedicated to robotics, and so [KevsRobots.com](https://www.kevsrobots.com) was born.

---

## Data

The data for kevsrobots.com is stored in a Yaml file called `_data/robots.yml`. This file contains a list of robots, each with a name, description, image and link to the page. The data is used in the `robots.html` file to create a list of robots with links to their pages.

Jekyll can parse the yaml file, and create a list of robots using a for loop. This is a powerful feature of Jekyll, and allows you to create dynamic content from static data.

KevsRobots has several yaml datafiles including:

File                 | Description
---------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
courses.yml          | A list of all the courses in the learning system (this file is actually generated by a Python program that builds the courses from the markdown files)
events.yml           | A list of upcoming, and past events
feeds.yml            | A list of RSS feeds for the site
gear.yml             | A list of gear that I use or have reviewed
glossary.yml         | A list of terms and their definitions
learning_pathway.yml | A list of learning pathways, which are a series of courses that are designed to be taken in a specific order
links.yml            | A list of links to other websites
nav_about.yml        | the navigation for the about page
nav_blog.yml         | the navigation for the blog page
nav_home.yml         | the navigation for the home page
nav_learn.yml        | the navigation for the learn page
nav_pythonai.yml     | the navigation for the pythonai page
nav_resource.yml     | the navigation for the resources page
nav_robots.yml       | the navigation for the robots page
nav_videos.yml       | the navigation for the videos page
nav_yir.yml          | the navigation for the year in review page
navigation.yml       | the main navigation for the site
periodic_table.yml   | a list of items in the periodic table of robotics
pimoroni.yml         | a list of Pimoroni products
popular_videos.yaml  | a list of the most popular videos (this file is generated by a Python program that reads the YouTube CSV file)
posts.yaml           | a list of all the posts on the site
profile.yml          | a list of profiles of people who have contributed to the site
projects.yml         | a list of projects that I have worked on
ptor.yml             | a list of items for the periodic table of robotics
reviews.yml          | a list of reviews of products
robots.yml           | a list of robots
socials.yml          | a list of social media links
top-nav.yml          | the top navigation for the site
youtube.yml          | a list of All my YouTube videos
{:class="table table-striped"}

---
